Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has dismissed the latest
ceasefire proposal by Hamas B's office
says a delegation will visit Qatar to
continue negotiations on the release of
Israeli captives and Netanyahu has also
approved the military's plan for a
ground operation in Rafa in southern
Gaza where around 1.5 million
Palestinians have sought shelter now
Hamas has proposed its plan by be
implemented in three stages of 42 days
each in the first stage the group
demands the withdrawal of Israeli forces
Beyond Salah Aline roads to enable
people to return home Hamas says it's
ready to release female Israeli
reservists held captive in Gaza in
exchange for Palestinian prisoners 50
inmates for each captive now in the
second stage Hamas wants a permanent
ceasefire to be announced before it
releases any captured soldiers and in
the final stage the group proposes the
end of Israel's Siege and the beginning
of reconstru efforts in Gaza okay for
more on all of this let's go to hamda
salute who joins us now from occupied
East Jerusalem netanyahu's just
responded to this Hamas proposal can you
just go into a little bit more detail
about what he had to
say well the Israeli Prime Minister's
office releasing a statement that was
quite short saying that hamas's demands
are still unrealistic but what we do
know is that these negotiations are no
longer at a stalemate remember that a
couple of weeks ago the negotiations in
Cairo were entirely stalled and the
Israelis did not send a delegation there
but this time it seems that the Israelis
will be sending their own delegation to
discuss with mediators about the
potential of this deal but again the
Israelis have said that no matter what
the war is not going to end until all of
their objectives for this war and how
they want to prosecute it are met Hamas
is demands remain the same they want to
see a comprehensive ceasefire meaning an
end to the war and the Israelis say that
is simply a non-negotiable at the same
time the war cabinet has also discussed
its plan for this rougher offensive what
more do we know about
that that's right Israel's war cabinet
convening about drawing up plans for
Israel's Invasion Ina the Israeli Prime
Minister is saying that they now do have
plans for the evacuation of the nearly
million and a half Palestinians who are
seeking refuge in gaza's Southernmost
city but remember that this anticipated
ground Invasion into DEA is something
that has received a lot of criticism a
lot of condemnation from around the
world especially from Israel's biggest
Ally the United States who said that
they simply wouldn't support an
operation like this given how many
civilians were in Raa so the Israelis
have remained persistent saying that it
is absolutely necessary in order to
achieve their goal of eliminating Hamas
they say they must go into ra so at this
point theseis are saying that they are
in the initial phases of approving plans
they have approved the plans for the
evacuation but how exactly it'll work we
do not know just yet okay thanks so much
for those updates that is ham salute for
us in occupied East
Jerusalem okay well let's talk to Honey
mmud who's joining us on the phone now
from Rafa and just in regards uh to this
potential offensive Israel is talking
about
evacuation uh how realistic is
that well well Tom just to start with
people were quite uh looking forward to
uh hearing something constructive and
positive response to Hamas proposal for
the uh the Seas Fire or the uh potential
Seas fire deal and right now the news
coming from uh uh a the Prime Minister
office is just creating a state of of
Mayhem and frustration among the among
people here in ra City we're talking
about overcrowded City really uh packed
with displaced families already
struggling uh day today to find basic
supplies and and food and suffer largely
from the false Narrative of of
evacuation Fai zones that were ordered
that they were ordered by the Israeli
military to go to to avoid being bombed
but they ended up being BM so now they
talked about where is the next safe
evacuation zone is going to be and how
realistic is that going to be and what
are the corridors that people are going
to be taking we're looking at a very
small short uh very small and and and is
overcrowded area from every part the
eastern part the central part of the
city the western part of RA City already
full of tents and displaced familyes so
in terms of uh of ensuring that the
safety and the safety of displaced
individuals and and and families here
it's not clear how it's going to to
happen all eyes are at the central area
that is is already under heavy
bombardment and we seen in the past
couple weeks how it it intensified the
attacks the aerial attacks as well as
the ground attack on
the and area that's more very close to
Gaza Shore it just shattered every sense
of of Safety and Security for people
something important to point out here
like this this talk has been going on
for quite some time now the threats of
of coming to to to and expand the ground
invasion is something that is used as a
political pressure by the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and right
now in response to the proposal made by
Hamas it looks more like of another way
to uh leverage on the negotiations in
Kyu as as the the wind is going to
happen is not clear yet in in the
statement or uh the plan has been
improved but the wi is not a clear right
now and all the while the humanitarian
situation both in southern Gaza but
particularly in the north just keeps
getting
worse it is getting worse right now with
the with this statement uh coming out of
of the approving the military plan and
the evacuation plan things are going to
get really very bad here in terms of of
of how people are going to cope with the
situations in terms of the ensuring the
flow of a humanitarian Aid that are
already very difficult and we're talking
about not only difficult situations
which people struggle daily basis to
find Food Supplies and and other Basic
Essentials but in terms of the flow of
Entry an operation in ra would mean a
complete blockade on ra Crossings which
means uh no one should expect any an
entry a single truck uh coming from R
Crossing to overcrowded R City to
provide a humanitarian Aid there's also
the ongoing constant attacks on on on on
eight Seekers across Gaza City we've
seen within the past couple days and
also the past 48 Hours three attacks uh
just hours separated uh them where many
Palestinians trying to get food supplies
and essential to to their families
there's also the the blockade on an
essential medical supplies to hospitals
and there was a a convoy of medical
supplies that was blocked by the isra
military could have medical scissor and
medical shears necessarily needed for
for sur and operation so it's likely to
get really it worse in each topping day
right now with this news uh going viral
right now okay thanks so much for that
honey honey mmud for us there on the
phone and
Rafa okay well for more on all of this
uh joining us now from West Jerusalem is
Gerson Baskin he's the founder of the
Israel Palestine Center for research and
information thank you very much for
joining us here on El jazer first of all
nyaho says that Hamas demands are
unrealistic in what way what what's the
main sticking point here do you
think I think it's important to note
that despite what NATO said about the
demands of Hamas being unrealistic the
war cabinet has decided to send a team
to Doha to continue the negotiations
this has to be taken in the context of
the negotiations and understanding that
Israel is trying to make a stronger
position going into those negotiations
it seems clear that Hamas has
demonstrated some flexibility in their
answers that they gave to the qataris
and the Egyptians both in terms of the
staging of the ceas fire without
demanding an immediate Israeli
declaration to end the war with regard
to the withdrawal from Gaza which they
are not demanding take place immediately
but can be done in stages and there's
also been some indication of a flex
willingness for flexibility on the issue
of prisoners I think that probably for
the isel's the most difficult point in
the
Hamas answers as far as we know is that
the 700 to 1,000 prisoners to be
released include at least 100 prisoners
who are serving life sentences meaning
that they have murdered Israelis and
that's going to be difficult for the
cabinet to accept okay you've said that
um there's been flexibility from Hamas
do you think that we will see the same
sort of flexibility from
Israel well I think if there wasn't
going to be flexibility on Israel they
wouldn't have sent a team or decided to
send a team to Doha as they didn't send
a team last week to Cairo when there was
a Hamas delegation there so the fact
that the the team will be going to to is
a sign that Israel is willing to
negotiate the big question behind all of
this is Mr natany and Mr are Mr natano
and Mr senoir really interested in an
agreement at this time um there are
analysts who say that the hostages for
sz's life insurance policy for nany the
pro prolongation of the war is his
political survival so the bottom line is
do they really want an agreement here
and we don't have an answer for that
certainly the people of Gaza the people
of Palestine the people of Israel want
an agreement to be reached we want the
hostages home the Palestinians must have
a ceasefire in Gaza everyone needs a
breaking a a point for for a having to
be able to think more coherently more
rationally about the situation on the
ground when they're not being bombed
yeah the operation in Rafa cannot be
done immediately and I think this is
also in the context of negotiations the
fact that the war cabinet in nan have
approved the battle plan s Rafa doesn't
necessarily mean that the battle plans
will be implemented if we do reach an
agreement and there is a 45-day
ceasefire well then it's put off and
maybe can be put off permanently okay I
mean is it just postering or or is
Netanyahu really defying a clear call by
the United States that going into ruer
would be a red line for them is is there
a ruer operation that Washington could
actually
support I think Washington has told
Israel that before they do an operation
in Rafa they have to evacuate the
civilians there with a
civilians between kanun and Rafa this is
not something that happens overnight if
Israel were to attack without a removing
the civilians from the Rafa area it
would be a breach uh a serious breach
between Israel and the United States and
I don't see it happening I do think that
there's a lot of posturing in announcing
today before sending a delegation to
Doha that the cabinet has approved War
plans okay we'll have to leave it there
but we really do appreciate uh your time
and your insight into all all of this
let's go Sean ban for us in West
Jerusalem thank you